Added Restaking page in usecases (#15400)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: public/content/restaking/index.md

---
title: Restaking
metaTitle: What is restaking? | Benefits and use of restaking
description: Use staked ETH to secure other decentralized services and earn extra rewards.
lang: en
template: use-cases
emoji: ":recycle:"
image: /images/use-cases/restaking.png
alt: A visual representation of restaking on Ethereum.
sidebarDepth: 2
summaryPoint1: Use staked ETH to secure other decentralized services and earn extra rewards.
buttons:
  - content: What is restaking?
    toId: what-is-restaking
  - content: How does it work?
    toId: how-does-restaking-work
    isSecondary: false
---

The Ethereum network secures billions of dollars of value 24/7, 365. How?

> People all over the world lock away (or “stake”) [ether (ETH)](/eth/) in smart contracts to run software that processes Ethereum transactions. In return, they get rewarded with more ETH.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
People all over the world lock away (or “stake”) [ether (ETH)](/eth/) in smart contracts to run the software that processes Ethereum transactions and secures the Ethereum network. In return, they get rewarded with more ETH.
```

> Restaking is a way for [stakers](/staking/) to extend this security to other Ethereum services. In return, they earn extra rewards, however they’re putting their staked ETH at more risk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Restaking is a technology built for [stakers](/staking/) to extend this security to other services, applications, or networks. In return, they earn additional restaking rewards. However, they also put their staked ETH at more risk.
```

Reviewer: Suggestion just to help clarify early that restaking is not enshrined in the Ethereum staking process described above.

| ------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------- |
| Earn ETH rewards               | Earn ETH Rewards + AVS rewards                    |
| Secures the Ethereum network   | Secures the Ethereum network + AVSs               |
| No minimum ETH                 | No minimum ETH                                    |
| Low risk level                 | Low-to-medium risk level                          |
| Withdraw time depends on queue | Withdraw time depends on queue + unbonding period |

## Why do we need restaking? {#why-do-we-need-restaking}

Picture two worlds; one with restaking and one without.

 <TabbedSection />

In this world with restaking, both the AVS and staker benefit from being able to find each other and trade security for extra rewards.

<br/>

<InfoBanner shouldSpaceBetween emoji=":bulb:">
  <div>
    <strong>Added benefit of restaking</strong><br />
    AVSs can pour all their resources into building and marketing their services, instead of getting distracted with decentralization and security.
  </div>
</InfoBanner>

## How does restaking work? {#how-does-restaking-work}

> There’s several entities involved in restaking and each of them play an important part.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are several entities involved in restaking—each one of them plays an important part.
```

| **Term**                | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| ----------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | **Restaking platforms** | A restaking platform is a service that connects AVSs, ETH stakers, and operators. They build decentralized applications for stakers to restake their ETH, and marketplaces where stakers, AVSs and operators can find each other. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Restaking platforms** | A restaking platform is a service that connects AVSs, ETH stakers, and operators. They build decentralized applications for stakers to restake their ETH, and marketplaces where stakers, AVSs, and operators can find each other. |
```

| **Native restakers**    | People who stake their ETH by running their own Ethereum validators can connect their staked ETH to platforms like EigenLayer to earn restaking rewards on top of validator rewards.                                              |
| **Liquid restakers**    | People who stake their ETH via a third party, like Lido or Rocket Pool, get Liquid Staking Tokens (LSTs) that represent their staked ETH. They can restake these LSTs while keeping their original ETH staked.                    |
| **Operators**           | Like restakers, operators stake ETH to secure AVSs, but unlike most restakers who are regular people, operators are professional service providers that guarantee things like uptime and performance.                             |
| **AVSs**                | These are the decentralized services — like price oracles, token bridges, and data systems — that receive security from restakers and offer token rewards in return.                                                              |

<br/>

<InfoBanner shouldSpaceBetween emoji=":bulb:">
  <div>
    <strong>Good to know</strong><br />

>     Native and liquid restakers often delegate their staked ETH to an operator instead of securing AVSs themselves.<br />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Native and liquid restakers often delegate their staked ETH to an operator, instead of running the software to secure AVSs themselves.<br />
```

>     This way they don’t need to worry about complicated technical requirements from AVSs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This way they don’t need to worry about complicated technical requirements from AVSs, though they receive a lower reward rate than operators.
```

    </p>
  </div>
</InfoBanner>

## How to get started with restaking? {#how-to-get-started-with-restaking}

| 🫡 Beginners                                                    | 🤓 Advanced Users                                                                     |
| --------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1. Stake ETH on platforms like Lido or Rocket Pool to get LSTs. | 1. Stake your ETH as a validator on Ethereum.                                         |
| 2. Use those LSTs to start restaking on EigenLayer.             | 2. Compare restaking services like EigenLayer, Symbiotic and others.                  |
|                                                                 | 3. Follow the instructions to connect your validator to the restaking smart contract. |

<br/>

<InfoBanner shouldSpaceBetween emoji=":eyes:">
  <div><strong>Ethereum Staking :</strong> How does it work?</div>
  <ButtonLink href="/staking/">
    Learn More
  </ButtonLink>
</InfoBanner>

## Advanced {#advanced}

> <YouTube id="-V-fG4J1N_M" />

Reviewer 2: We should have at least some content here 🙏

Reviewer 3: maybe we can remove this so that there is less focus on eigen

## Further reading {#further-reading}

> 1. [https://dune.com/hashed_official/Irt](https://dune.com/hashed_official/Irt)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 2. [https://ethereum.org/en/staking/](https://ethereum.org/en/staking/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Learn more about staking ETH: [https://ethereum.org/en/staking/](https://ethereum.org/en/staking/)
```

> 3. [https://www.ledger.com/academy/what-is-ethereum-restaking?utm_source=chatgpt.com](https://www.ledger.com/academy/what-is-ethereum-restaking?utm_source=chatgpt.com)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. [Ledger Academy: What Is Ethereum Restaking?](https://www.ledger.com/academy/what-is-ethereum-restaking)
```

4. [https://consensys.io/blog/eigenlayer-decentralized-ethereum-restaking-protocol-explained?utm_source=chatgpt.com](https://consensys.io/blog/eigenlayer-decentralized-ethereum-restaking-protocol-explained?utm_source=chatgpt.com)
5. [https://vitalik.eth.limo/general/2023/05/21/dont_overload.html](https://vitalik.eth.limo/general/2023/05/21/dont_overload.html)

> 6. [https://cointelegraph.com/explained/what-is-eigenlayer-ethereums-restaking-protocol-explained?utm_source=chatgpt.com](https://cointelegraph.com/explained/what-is-eigenlayer-ethereums-restaking-protocol-explained?utm_source=chatgpt.com)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. [Cointelegraph - What is EigenLayer? Ethereum’s restaking protocol explained](https://cointelegraph.com/explained/what-is-eigenlayer-ethereums-restaking-protocol-explained)
```

7. [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-V-fG4J1N_M](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-V-fG4J1N_M)

> 8. [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5r0SooSQFJg](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5r0SooSQFJg)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. [Junion - EigenLayer Explained: What is Restaking?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5r0SooSQFJg)
```

> 9. [https://www.stakingrewards.com/asset/ethereum-2-0/analytics](https://www.stakingrewards.com/asset/ethereum-2-0/analytics)

Reviewer 2: should have human readable labels, not their hrefs 🙏

> 9. [https://www.stakingrewards.com/asset/ethereum-2-0/analytics](https://www.stakingrewards.com/asset/ethereum-2-0/analytics)

Reviewer: I don't think line 177 here includes restaking - suggestion to update below 

```suggestion
8. [The Block - Restaking Data Dash](https://www.theblock.co/data/decentralized-finance/restaking)
```
